Problem Statement:
    Development of a robust System for Language-Agnostic Speaker Identification/Verification and Diarization; and subsequent Transcription & Translation of the multilingual and code-switched audio.
    PS Description:
    We aim to develop an integrated audio processing system that transforms spoken audio into structured, multilingual and textual insights. Given an input audio file, the system will perform the following tasks :-
    Speaker Identification:
    Match each speaker segment to a known identity when enrolment data is available.
    Speaker Diarization:
    Segment the audio by identifying boundary between different speakers.
    Language Identification:
    Detect the language spoken in each segment, supporting multilingual and code-switched audio.
    Automatic Speech Recognition:
    Convert each speaker’s speech into accurate text in spoken script.
    Neural Machine Translation:
    Translate the transcribed text into English language, preserving speaker level segmentation.
    
    The solution should be able to handle:
    Sample rate – 8k – 48 k
    Bit depth : 4 - 32 bits
    File types : wav, mp3, ogg, flac etc.
    SNR : -5 to 20 db

    Instructions for Accessing the Problem Statement Document:

    1. All interested participants must fill this Problem Statement Access Form to view the detailed problem statement.

    2. The form requires verification of your mobile number via OTP. You must enter a valid Indian mobile number to receive and authenticate the OTP. Only verified users will be allowed to proceed.

    3. Upon successful verification, you will be able to select the problem statements, and their descriptions will become visible on the confirmation screen.

    4. The detailed information about the datasets and evaluation criteria will be published prior to 31st July, 2025.

    5. Broad indicators for datasets at each stage are as below: -

    Stage 1: The datasets will largely be from open source. In certain PS, source URLs will be provided.

    Stage 2: The datasets will remain from open source. Synthetic data may be provided for a few PS. Variety and scale of data will be larger in Stage-2.

    Stage 3: Organisation specific data will be provisioned at the on-premise incubation centre in majority of the PS. Following PS will, however, continue over Open source data: -

    6. The evaluation at each stage will be done by a committee of independent juries with a composition of experts from NCIIPC and Academia.

    7. Broad indicators for evaluation at each stage are as below: -

    Stage 1: Understanding of the Problem Statement, Approach adopted, Proposed architecture, Technical capabilities of the team, Ability of the team to complete overall objectives and Interview by the expert panel

    Stage 2: Architecture of the solution, Accuracy of the solution, Efficiency of the solution in terms of resources usage, time taken etc

    Stage 3: Accuracy of the solution, Efficiency as above in stage 2, Completeness of the solution and Scalability of the solution

    8. Updates will be published to all participants from time to time over this portal.


explain me